[MUSIC]
So, we spent a lot of time implementing
features, and in this video we're gonna
talk about tuning our game so that
it's enjoyable to play for the player.
And one of the things I'll do first
of all I'll turn off my UI so
I can see what's going on.
We've got four defenders or
four characters on the defenders team and
two attackers.
And we've got a few more attackers we
can add and tons of ideas for both
defenders and attackers, but I'm working
within the context of just this for now.
Well, I've got a couple of tips for
you in terms of tuning your game.
First thing is experiment,
just see what happens.
Just chuck some numbers in there see what
feels good and then iterate upon that.
Add a little bit more,
take a little bit off and as you go along
you'll get a gut feel for, you know what?
It was really fun when I had
this guy at 100 hit points and
I had this guy shooting at say 50 damage.
It took two shots to hit him when
I had three cuctuses lined up,
that was kind of great.
So just experiment and play around with
it and it takes a lot of time, but
I think the experimentation
approach is totally valid and
equate things back to
a common metric if you can.
So for example, standard hits to kill,
I was using that just now,
that's what comes naturally to me.
So, how do many hit points does he have?
Well, it comes down to how many bullets,
or
how many projectiles do we want our
cactus to shoot to kill the lizard.
Now, we know the lizard is
moving at a certain speed.
So, if we have our cactus, our cactus just
here, let's see if I can click on him.
Cactus > Body, so have our cactus
in the same lane as the lizard, and
it's moving there.
If these projectiles are coming at
a certain speed and at a certain pace,
then, maybe the lizard is gonna cope three
hit before he even makes it to the cactus?
So, then we need to take
that into consideration.
We need to have the lizard
have enough health, so
that he actually makes it
enough to get to cactus.
And then entire structure of our game for
now, we haven't made a deep game.
I'm gonna be honest with you here,
we've made a game that's great for you and
I to get a game up and running.
But there's a couple
things that are lacking.
For example, our game doesn't have
very good progression within a level.
So, we're just spawning attacker,
spawning attacker, spotting attacker
on a random basis, we're not saying
spawn one for the first minute and
then three in the second minute and
them five in the third minute.
So that a sort of thing we can do to make
our individual level have more flow to it,
more progression in it.
But for now we've gone with
a fairly simple implementation,
which means that we should have our levels
lasting just a short amount of time.
So we don't get to the point where the
players got 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 cactuses lined
deep and then any guy who comes onto the
screen is gonna get smashed straight away.
So you wanna avoid that situation.
So think of it in terms of like
30 to 60 second game play per
level in terms of the sort
of structure we've got.
Also think of a benchmark character,
so for me it's the cactus,
the cactus on scene.
Well, it's gonna have a certain amount
of hit points, a certain cost, and
a certain damage and then the others
are gonna be more or less than that.
So I find that really helps and
be extreme, not subtle with your tuning.
So for example, having a gnome of 10
damage versus a cactus of 8 damage is
really boring for the player.
It's like, why bother?
Just do gnomes the whole time or
just always do a cactus,
it just doesn't really matter.
Two points, it's nothing,
but a gnome of 50 damage and
cactus of 8 damage is interesting,
cuz then you have a choice.
Cuz the gnome we're gonna make cost a lot
more money, but it does a ton more damage.
So you wanna have those
choices be interesting for
the player and let the player fail.
Make sure you make a game where
the player can absolutely win, but
should be failing at times because then
they feel clever when they do succeed.
So what I want you to do in this
video is create a tuning matrix.
And I've put in one number already,
this is my base character I'm using.
We've got cactus, gnome, trophy, stone,
lizard, fox, cost, hitpoints, and damage.
So just scribble this down
on a piece of paper or
if you've got your own notes somewhere,
then put it there.
Now I want you to put in values for each
of these, what is the cost of the trophy?
What is the damage of the fox?
And lizard and fox won't have a cost,
trophy and stone don't do any damage, so
there's a few things that will be blank.
But give it your best shot, and work out
that relationship between the various
characters that you've got in your game.
So, good chance to put on your
designer hat, put in some numbers, and
give it your best shot.
I'll see you back here when you're done.
Okay, welcome back.
So I'll show you the numbers that I've
done by no means are they the best numbers
or correct, or
are they gonna work in the game.
I haven't really tested the math,
but I wanna show you my logic and
my thinking here.
In terms of cost,
I want the gnome to be three times
more expensive than the cactus.
But I want the return to
be better than three times.
So you see the damage is four times as
good, so the player can out down a bunch
of cactuses but, it would be better
more cost effective to put down gnomes.
Why wouldn't they just
put down all gnomes?
Well, as you seen in our game it takes
a while for the results to generate, so
you have to wait awhile for the gnome.
Or gnome is a little bit of
a later level thing where
you've already put down some trophies, and
generated enough coin to have the gnomes.
Hitpoints I said they're about the same,
cactus and gnome,
they both get num-num,
the same sort of speed.
If you look at lizard and fox,
wanna have the lizard be a little
bit stronger in terms of hitpoints, and
a little bet less in terms of damage.
And the fox a little bit squishier but
a little bit more damaged, and
obviously the fox jumps over the grace.
So that's the start of my matrix.
So what I'm gonna do now
is implement in Unity.
I'll implement my cactus numbers, we'll
do that together and then off screen,
I'll do the other ones.
You don't need to watch me go through and
fiddle with all the numbers.
Once we've done one, you'll know
where to find all the values and
you can do that yourself,
this is part of the tuning mechanism.
So let's go find our cactus,
this is a cactus that we've instantiated.
But we'll use that,
then apply back to the prefab.
We've got the cost is already 50,
you can see it on our Defenders script.
We are now looking for health, health is
currently 75, I'll change that to 50.
That's all looking pretty good and
then apply that back to the prefab.
The damage is on the zucchini itself,
I believe.
So let's go find prefab, it's been
a while since we've used this, isn't it?
Zucchini, and we can see the projectile,
and the damage is already 50.
So, that was pretty easy to do.
I've just gone and
set it up in those particular places.
And like you said, off camera, I'm gonna
do the setup for the other one, so
I've got my tuning fork.
But now is the time for
you to tune your game.
Actually, you know what, a quick sub
point, I was just going through and
doing this with the fox, and I realized
that it's a little bit trickier,
because the fox damage is
sitting on its animation.
So we need to click on the Fox, and
then go into the foxes attack animation,
find the event where we've
strike current target and
change that to the value that we wanted.
For me, my damage was 40, okay,
it's already 40, so good stuff.
So I just wanted to sho
you that extra point.
That's how I'm doing it for the fox.
Okay, great stuff and
I will see you again shortly.